docs/Supported-Platforms.md, before:

# Supported Platforms

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Per-Platform Details](#per-platform-details)
  * [Windows](#windows)
  * [macOS](#macos)
  * [Linux](#linux)
- [Establishing Platform Supportability](#establishing-platform-supportability)
  * [Development Tools](#development-tools)
  * [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)
  * [Smoke Testing](#smoke-testing)
  * [Non-Recommended Platforms](#non-recommended-platforms)

# Summary

[Downloadable packages](https://www.brimsecurity.com/download/) for Brim are
available that run on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Our current platform
recommendations on which to run Brim:

* Windows
   * Windows 10 or newer
   * Windows Server 2019 or newer
* macOS
   * macOS Catalina 10.15.7 or newer (Intel-based Mac hardware only)
* Linux
  * Ubuntu 18.04 or newer
  * CentOS 8.0 1905 or newer
  * Debian 10.0.0 or newer
  * Fedora 28 or newer

The sections below provide details regarding these guidelines and how they are
established.

# Per-Platform Details

## Windows

Brim's [test automation](#automated-testing) runs on Windows Server
2019 and therefore this is the platform on which we are best able to ensure
quality and prevent regressions.
[Microsoft support statements](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/release-information/status-windows-10-20h2)
simultaneously target both Windows 10 and Windows Server, so our quality
expectations between Windows 10 and Windows Server 2019 are equivalent. Several
Brim developers also run Windows 10 desktops and regularly perform ad hoc
testing with it to reproduce reported issues.

Basic [smoke testing](#smoke-testing) has also validated that Brim appears to
work on Windows 8.1 as well. Similar testing has also confirmed that Brim does
_not_ work on Windows 7. Therefore we do _not_ recommend attempting to run Brim
on releases older than Windows 8.1.

## macOS

Brim's macOS releases run on the Intel-based hardware that makes up the
majority of Macs in use today. However, there is currently no support for
running Brim on the recently-announced
[M1-based hardware](https://www.apple.com/mac/m1/). Issue
[brim/1266](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/issues/1266) tracks the addition
of M1 support.

Brim's [test automation](#automated-testing) runs on Catalina 10.15 and
therefore this is the platform on which we are best able to ensure quality and
prevent regressions. Several Brim developers also run macOS Big Sur 11.0 and
regularly perform ad hoc testing with it to reproduce reported issues.

Basic [smoke testing](#smoke-testing) has also validated that Brim appears to
work on macOS Mojave 10.14 as well. Similar testing has also confirmed that
Brim does _not_ work on macOS High Sierra 10.13. Therefore, we do _not_
recommend attempting to run Brim on macOS releases older than macOS Mojave
10.14.

## Linux

Brim's [test automation](#automated-testing) runs on Ubuntu 18.04 (`.deb`
package) and CentOS 8 (`.rpm` package) and therefore these are the platforms
on which we are best able to ensure quality and prevent regressions.

The [CentOS FAQ](https://wiki.centos.org/FAQ/General) explains that CentOS
"aims to be functionally compatible with Red Hat Enterprise Linux" ([RHEL](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux-platforms/enterprise-linux)).
Therefore the CentOS versions listed in this article provide the basis of the
Brim supportability expectation for the equivalent RHEL version.

Basic [smoke testing](#smoke-testing) has also validated the _oldest_
release on which Brim appeared to work for each common distribution, as
follows:

* Ubuntu 10.04
* CentOS 8 1905
* Debian 10.0.0
* Fedora 28

Therefore we do _not_ recommend attempting to run Brim on distributions older
than those listed above.

# Establishing Platform Supportability

The determination of the specific versions of platforms for which we can set
expectations of quality are based on multiple factors. These include:

* Support for the platform in dependent [development tools](#development-tools)
* Availability of the platform for [automated testing](#automated-testing)
and/or [smoke testing](#smoke-testing)

The following sections provide more detail, along with guidance if you feel
strongly about trying to get Brim running on a [non-recommended platform](#non-recommended-platforms).

## Development Tools

There are two primary development tools on which Brim depends:
[Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-platforms)
and [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install#requirements). Their support
statements cite older platform releases than the Brim-specific ones cited above.
Therefore the recommendations in the [Summary](#summary) section above should
be followed.

## Automated Testing

The most extensive testing of Brim is provided via automation that is run on
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions). Specific platform
versions of
[Runners](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/reference/specifications-for-github-hosted-runners)
are referenced in the automation for Brim's
[Continuous Integration tests](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/blob/master/.github/workflows/ci.yml)
and build workflows for
[Windows](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/blob/master/.github/workflows/win-release-candidate.yml),
[macOS](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/blob/master/.github/workflows/macos-release-candidate.yml), and
[Linux](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/blob/master/.github/workflows/linux-release-candidate.yml).

## Smoke Testing

Due to the large number of permutations of platforms (especially as relates to
Linux distributions), it is currently infeasible to provide the same exhaustive
automated coverage on every version of every possible platform. Occasionally,
manual "smoke testing" has been performed on a wider number of platforms to
confirm basic functionality. Such a smoke test consists of the following:

* Install the base platform while accepting the defaults on any offered install-time config options
* Install the Brim app using the standard package install procedure for the platform
* Import a test pcap into Brim and confirm embedded Zeek and Suricata both produce records from it

This exercise was most recently performed in December, 2020 in preparation for
the GA release `v0.21.0` that introduces Suricata support. For more details on
the outcome of this exercise, review [brim/1263](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/issues/1263).

## Non-Recommended Platforms

While we welcome you to
[open an issue](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/wiki/Troubleshooting#opening-an-issue)
about any problem you experience with Brim regardless of platform version,
the priority of the core Brim development team is to maintain stability and
introduce new features on the modern platforms that are most widely used.
Therefore we may be limited in our ability to provide fixes (or any fix at all)
for platform versions older/different from those recommended above.

We also understand that certain users may have a strong motivation to make Brim
work on other platforms. As Brim is open source, community members are welcomed
to perform their own research regarding such platforms and submit
[cookbooks](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/wiki#cookbooks) that may be of
use to other users seeking to run on the same platform. Before embarking on
such an effort, we recommend
[opening an issue](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/wiki/Troubleshooting#opening-an-issue)
to check if we're aware of any existing efforts regarding that platform.

Commit message:

Adjust support statement for M1-based Macs

docs/Supported-Platforms.md, after:

# Supported Platforms

- [Summary](#summary)
- [Per-Platform Details](#per-platform-details)
  * [Windows](#windows)
  * [macOS](#macos)
    + [Software](#software)
    + [Hardware](#hardware)
  * [Linux](#linux)
- [Establishing Platform Supportability](#establishing-platform-supportability)
  * [Development Tools](#development-tools)
  * [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)
  * [Smoke Testing](#smoke-testing)
  * [Non-Recommended Platforms](#non-recommended-platforms)

# Summary

[Downloadable packages](https://www.brimsecurity.com/download/) for Brim are
available that run on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Our current platform
recommendations on which to run Brim:

* Windows
   * Windows 10 or newer
   * Windows Server 2019 or newer
* macOS
   * macOS Catalina 10.15.7 or newer (see [below](#hardware) for hardware considerations)
* Linux
  * Ubuntu 18.04 or newer
  * CentOS 8.0 1905 or newer
  * Debian 10.0.0 or newer
  * Fedora 28 or newer

The sections below provide details regarding these guidelines and how they are
established.

# Per-Platform Details

## Windows

Brim's [test automation](#automated-testing) runs on Windows Server
2019 and therefore this is the platform on which we are best able to ensure
quality and prevent regressions.
[Microsoft support statements](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/release-information/status-windows-10-20h2)
simultaneously target both Windows 10 and Windows Server, so our quality
expectations between Windows 10 and Windows Server 2019 are equivalent. Several
Brim developers also run Windows 10 desktops and regularly perform ad hoc
testing with it to reproduce reported issues.

Basic [smoke testing](#smoke-testing) has also validated that Brim appears to
work on Windows 8.1 as well. Similar testing has also confirmed that Brim does
_not_ work on Windows 7. Therefore we do _not_ recommend attempting to run Brim
on releases older than Windows 8.1.

## macOS

### Software

Brim's [test automation](#automated-testing) runs on Catalina 10.15 and
therefore this is the macOS version on which we are best able to ensure quality
and prevent regressions. Several Brim developers also run macOS Big Sur 11.0
and regularly perform ad hoc testing with it to reproduce reported issues.

Basic [smoke testing](#smoke-testing) has also validated that Brim appears to
work on macOS Mojave 10.14 as well. Similar testing has also confirmed that
Brim does _not_ work on macOS High Sierra 10.13. Therefore, we do _not_
recommend attempting to run Brim on macOS releases older than macOS Mojave
10.14.

### Hardware

The build procedure for Brim's macOS releases creates binaries intended to
run on the Intel-based Mac hardware that make up the majority of Macs in
use today. Brim releases are not yet available that are built specifically for
the recently-announced [M1-based hardware](https://www.apple.com/mac/m1/).
However, Apple's [Rosetta 2](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT211861) makes
it possible to run Intel-targeted binaries on M1-based Macs, and
[smoke testing](#smoke-testing) has indicated that current Brim releases can
leverage this to run on M1-based Macs.

Due to issues of
[availability](https://github.com/actions/virtual-environments/issues/2187),
our automated tests for macOS run today on Apple hardware that is Intel-based
but not M1-based. Therefore if you have your choice of Mac hardware platform,
Intel-based is more strongly recommended. However, as we know the M1-based Macs
will become more popular in the future, please
[open issues](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/wiki/Troubleshooting#opening-an-issue)
for problems you expereince with Brim on M1-based Macs as you would any other.
If we should begin to accumulate bugs that are specific to M1-based hardware,
this will help guide the prioritization of our goal to deliver M1-specific
builds ([brim/1266](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/issues/1266)).

## Linux

Brim's [test automation](#automated-testing) runs on Ubuntu 18.04 (`.deb`
package) and CentOS 8 (`.rpm` package) and therefore these are the platforms
on which we are best able to ensure quality and prevent regressions.

The [CentOS FAQ](https://wiki.centos.org/FAQ/General) explains that CentOS
"aims to be functionally compatible with Red Hat Enterprise Linux" ([RHEL](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/linux-platforms/enterprise-linux)).
Therefore the CentOS versions listed in this article provide the basis of the
Brim supportability expectation for the equivalent RHEL version.

Basic [smoke testing](#smoke-testing) has also validated the _oldest_
release on which Brim appeared to work for each common distribution, as
follows:

* Ubuntu 10.04
* CentOS 8 1905
* Debian 10.0.0
* Fedora 28

Therefore we do _not_ recommend attempting to run Brim on distributions older
than those listed above.

# Establishing Platform Supportability

The determination of the specific versions of platforms for which we can set
expectations of quality are based on multiple factors. These include:

* Support for the platform in dependent [development tools](#development-tools)
* Availability of the platform for [automated testing](#automated-testing)
and/or [smoke testing](#smoke-testing)

The following sections provide more detail, along with guidance if you feel
strongly about trying to get Brim running on a [non-recommended platform](#non-recommended-platforms).

## Development Tools

There are two primary development tools on which Brim depends:
[Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-platforms)
and [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install#requirements). Their support
statements cite older platform releases than the Brim-specific ones cited above.
Therefore the recommendations in the [Summary](#summary) section above should
be followed.

## Automated Testing

The most extensive testing of Brim is provided via automation that is run on
[GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions). Specific platform
versions of
[Runners](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions/reference/specifications-for-github-hosted-runners)
are referenced in the automation for Brim's
[Continuous Integration tests](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/blob/master/.github/workflows/ci.yml)
and build workflows for
[Windows](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/blob/master/.github/workflows/win-release-candidate.yml),
[macOS](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/blob/master/.github/workflows/macos-release-candidate.yml), and
[Linux](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/blob/master/.github/workflows/linux-release-candidate.yml).

## Smoke Testing

Due to the large number of permutations of platforms (especially as relates to
Linux distributions), it is currently infeasible to provide the same exhaustive
automated coverage on every version of every possible platform. Occasionally,
manual "smoke testing" has been performed on a wider number of platforms to
confirm basic functionality. Such a smoke test consists of the following:

* Install the base platform while accepting the defaults on any offered install-time config options
* Install the Brim app using the standard package install procedure for the platform
* Import a test pcap into Brim and confirm embedded Zeek and Suricata both produce records from it

This exercise was most recently performed in December, 2020 in preparation for
the GA release `v0.21.0` that introduces Suricata support. For more details on
the outcome of this exercise, review [brim/1263](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/issues/1263).

## Non-Recommended Platforms

While we welcome you to
[open an issue](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/wiki/Troubleshooting#opening-an-issue)
about any problem you experience with Brim regardless of platform version,
the priority of the core Brim development team is to maintain stability and
introduce new features on the modern platforms that are most widely used.
Therefore we may be limited in our ability to provide fixes (or any fix at all)
for platform versions older/different from those recommended above.

We also understand that certain users may have a strong motivation to make Brim
work on other platforms. As Brim is open source, community members are welcomed
to perform their own research regarding such platforms and submit
[cookbooks](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/wiki#cookbooks) that may be of
use to other users seeking to run on the same platform. Before embarking on
such an effort, we recommend
[opening an issue](https://github.com/brimsec/brim/wiki/Troubleshooting#opening-an-issue)
to check if we're aware of any existing efforts regarding that platform.
